To view keyboard shortcuts, press question mark
View keyboard shortcuts
Image
Making a UX for Swarm Subagents.
akira
@realmcore_
·
16h
Last week we launched Slate, an RLM based coding agent that can run a swarm.
What this means in English: Slate writes code in a DSL to run many subagents.
P.S. this article is partially because we also wanted to show off how we can do subagent handoffs where you can take over the subagent from slate.
Slate is actively experimental. We're just testing everything to see what works (and we're totally open to suggestions!)
The first thing to note is that Slate is more like a hive-mind and less like a network.
Slate has a single threaded orchestration engine, and delegates *actions* to subthreads.
An action can be anything: view this website, set up a server, locate X issue, explore the auth code, etc.
The subthreads then take the actions, and return a compacted version of their trace to the main thread. This is called an episode.
Image
Over the course of a given task that an engineer performs, they might take dozens of actions.
They’ll start by finding the right locations, creating a plan, falsifying any assumptions, etc. This includes process related tasks too like design meetings etc.
Once they have a design/implementation in mind, or even a plan of attack, they’ll begin implementing, and then testing.
They take the first few steps, reorient, take a few more steps towards the goal, etc. ad infinitum until the task is done.
Slate kind of works like this too. Treating each operation as a step towards the goal.
But there are so many steps to a given task, how do we represent all of this information to the person using slate?
How do you get visibility into subagents in a swarm?
Our approach is to show each subagent as a card. This card contains a lot of information that is relevant to understanding the status of a subagent.
The card contains:

    The task
    Follow up instructions
    Agent outputs
    Recent tool calls
    Total subagent cost
    Current completion status

This is helpful because it shows you:

    What the agent is working on
    How it is approaching that task
    How much that subtask costs
    Whether or not the agent succeeded at the task (more on this later)

When deciding to exit a task, there are 3 possible states we assign to an agent: Done, Escalated, Aborted.
Done is assigned when the task… completed.
Escalated is assigned when the task was stopped in the middle because of some possible blocker the agent ran into.
Aborted is assigned as a catch all for all other failures (agent or otherwise)
These statuses are decided by slate, and you’ll see them pop up under the agent’s card.
Image
Now, we could’ve made a grid, a table etc. to look at active sessions. But that’s more of a multi-agent approach, in comparison to how slate works.
Limiting the information overload in a session
We *generally* don’t want to show *all* subthreads at all times.
Luckily because of the design of our underlying agent, the UX is actually pretty simple.
We just show the active *actions* that slate is running at a given time, rather than agents.
This actually makes it almost like we are displaying tool calls with a parallel tool calling ui.
You can see this in action inside the TUI in the above video.
Ok but what happens if I want to dig into a subagent session?
From the outside it sort of looks like slate is supposed to be mostly hands-off and you’re only supposed to talk to the main orchestration agent.
And, for the most part that’s true.
But slate treats subagents as a first-class primitive.
So it made sense for us to add a way to *directly* interact with a subagent session.
But in order to interact with a subagent, you need a way to navigate through all the sessions.
You can view all subagents by pressing ctrl-o
Image
Handing over control of a subagent
This high level view allows you to take a look inside any of the subagent sessions, and by navigating with the arrow keys, you can select which subagent you want to access directly.
Once you select one, you can then directly interact with it. This makes it *your* subagent. This ux might change but for now you can directly take over subagents.
If you don’t interact with the subagent you’re accessing, you can just view it like you would a normal subagent, pressing ctrl-b to return to the main thread.
Image

We're not sure where this new paradigm will take us, or even how beneficial it actually is for software engineering. We have a few hunches, but we'll see how and where these usage patterns fit in with the overall ecosystem.
Want to publish your own Article?
Upgrade to Premium
akira
@realmcore_
Making an autonomous swe • @0xrandomlabs
Incepto ne desistam Pax aeternum Memento Mori

